Special abilities v2, mostly Flak (#4)
GameBrains/er-core: modules/special-rules/pages/flak.adoc

= Flak

These units are specialised to shoot down enemy flyers and drop pods.
Some use very sophisticated targeting devices and fast, accurate weapons systems.
Others simply fill the air with so many munitions that they can hardly fail to get some hits.

---

{flak} units can attack flyers in one of two different ways, depending on what orders you give to their detachment.

> [IMPORTANT]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
```
One has to be careful not to overdo notices, and to use the right notice type for the 'level of attention' that you need to grab. Overuse or misuse devalues them and they become 'noise' to the reader. 
IMPORTANT is meant for things that are all too easy to forget at an important moment, like the need to take a Leadership test before you can place certain orders (or move, or whatever it is, I forget!). 
I should probably try to codify usage in the Contributor's Guide. But this is the rough idea.

Author: Yes, that definitely needs adding to the guide. I'm used to using IMPORTANT for marking important parts of a rule that aren't in the main bullet points, and think of NOTE as being more like a reminder, so it wouldn't occur to me to use it as a wrapper for primary rules content.

.Flak and drop pods
====

> {flak} units may fire on drop pods as if they were flyers, against the Armour value of the transported unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{flak} units may shoot at drop pods as if they were flyers.
For your rolls to hit, use the Armour value of the transported unit.
```
Just making it a bit more explicit - the use of 'against' is slightly ambiguous.
Also note [fire; shoot](https://epicremastered.com/contributors-guide/a-to-z-of-style.html#_fire_shoot)

====

> == Flak orders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Flak orders
```
Don't accept this suggestion, I'll just explain my thinking and we can refine the idea together:
I have used this 'label, not heading' approach in some other cases too. Usually where there are options or sub-sets that might not warrant a whole heading level to themselves in the navigation.
But then I tend to upgrade them to a heading if I think that people are very likely to find it useful to have a URL anchor at that point, for sharing on Facebook etcetera. Which could well make sense in this case, so your change might be best.

Author: OK, but if you're going to use labels instead of headings the CSS needs to be altered accordingly because the labels are visually _far_ too subtle. And as you say, in this case it's something where players are going to want to go be able to go straight to on a page.

For optimum effectiveness, {flak} units and their detachment need to be at a suitable state of readiness.
We represent this state with special orders called Flak.

> . If you wish to place any detachments on Flak orders, you must do this in the Start phase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you wish to place any detachments on Flak orders then you must do this in the Start phase.
```
I've just suggested insertion of 'then' in place of the comma because I think this is more correct (continuation of the same clause). I should've done this in in the first place.
Start phase is correct of course, nice catch (I thought I'd done that - must've gotten lost in the mix of other things going on).

+
[TIP]
====

> You can place a detachment on both Flak orders and Preparatory Bombardment orders at the same time in the Start phase, if you wish, declaring both at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can place a detachment on both Flak orders and Preparatory Bombardment orders at the same time in the Start phase, if you wish.
You must declare both at the same time.
```
I'm not sure why you'd want to make one long sentence out of this when two shorter ones are easier to digest.
Note also [-ing words](https://epicremastered.com/contributors-guide/a-to-z-of-style.html#_ing_words).
Oh, and I've made two lines here per the best practice [One sentence per line](https://epicremastered.com/contributors-guide/best-practices.html#_one_sentence_per_line).

In this case, you will be able to make a Preparatory Bombardment with {artillery} units in the detachment, and make Flak attacks with {flak} units.
====
. Place the {special-orders} marker to indicate that the detachment is on Flak orders.
. You can use these units to shoot at flyers in the movement phase.

> +[TODO: ...and at drop pods? The errata mentions that they can Snap Fire at 'flyers and drop pods' in the 'other orders' bit of text, seemingly as an afterthought -- seems to imply that they should be able to target drop pods while on Flak orders too.]+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Given your improvements we can do away with this TODO now.

> +[IJW: It's not spelled out in the original Flak rules, because it's in the drop pod rules. However, see the IMPORTANT box I've added at the top, which spells out that Flak units treat drop pods as flyers.]+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Given your improvements we can do away with this note now.
Good to know though, and nice that they did clarify somewhere.

 * You may not move the units in the Movement phase, nor use them to shoot in the Shooting phase.
 * Treat the other units in the detachment as though they are on Overwatch orders -- so you can move them up to 5cm in the Movement phase and re-roll misses when you shoot with them in the Shooting phase.

> . {flak} units can shoot at enemy flyers if any part of their flight path is within the {flak} unit's full Range:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. A {flak} unit can shoot at enemy flyers if any part of their flight path is within the {flak} unit's full Range:
```
I used units' (plural possessive), and you switched to unit's (singular possessive). Either way it is awkward because the sentence mixes plural near the start with singular near the end. So I suggest this rephrase to resolve the situation properly.

Author: I don't think 'value' is _at all_ appropriate after Range, because we're not referring to the value. 
'Range' is already defined as 'The maximum effective distance of the unit’s weaponry (in centimetres).' and is always displayed in centimetres so 'within Range' is grammatically correct.
'Within the full Range value' unpacks to 'within 30cm value' etc, which is nonsensical.

Plus 'within range', 'within 15cm' and 'within 10cm' is already in use for adding up Firepower when shooting, for firefights, and for Snap Fire. I _did_ check first! 😜

>  * Roll one D6 for each point of the {flak} unit's Firepower.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Roll one D6 for each point of the {flak} unit's Firepower value.
```
Again, I'd lean towards explicit with 'value' but could be persuaded.
Nice catch on 'one D6 for each'. :-D

Author: Unlike Range, Firepower is just a numeric value, so adding 'value' afterwards works grammatically.

I don't personally think it's required, though, and it makes the text feel very wordy.

 Each result that is equal to or higher than the flyer's Armour value scores a hit on the flyer.
 You can split the firepower of the {flak} unit between several flyers if you wish.
 * Once you have rolled a D6 for each point of the unit's Firepower, the unit cannot shoot for the rest of the turn.

>  * Super-heavy weapons can be applied to the unit's shooting, for example an Eldar Fire Prism's {macro-weapon} means that it's one shot will hit on a 4+ regardless of the flyer's Armour value. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * You can apply the effects of super-heavy weapons. +
.Flak, with a super-heavy weapon
====
The Eldar Fire Prism has a single {macro-weapon} attack.
This means that you will roll one die, and you'll hit on a result of 4+ — regardless of the flyer's Armour value.
====
```
This suggestion removes nasty old passive language :) [passive case](https://epicremastered.com/contributors-guide/a-to-z-of-style.html#_p)
Also, it breaks down the long sentence and puts the example in an example block. (Let's see how that block looks — might need to rethink if it is too dominant.)

>  +[TODO: Should we unify this with the usual hit allocation rules? Seems like we should clarify special abilities too, eg {macro-weapon} which is mentioned in the errata for the alternative Snap Fire attack but not in the main part of the Flak rules.]+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
No longer needed, given your improvements.

>  +[IJW: As far as I can see, the Flak unit gets to choose targets freely, and yes MW works when on Flak orders.]+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
No longer needed. I figured that MW must work on Flak orders, just wasn't sure whether to explicitly mention it.
I think you're right that the player gets to choose freely among valid flyer targets though.

> == Any other orders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Any other orders
```
Ditto my comment on the previous heading. Whichever way we go, both should be the same of course.

Author: This brings up another issue. 

The repository uses Snap-fire in the dedicated page, the Flak page uses Snap Fire, and now you've just added Snap-Fire as a third option! 
GW weren't consistent either, but could you choose one option for Remastered? 😉

> Apply these rules to the unit's Snap Fire attacks against flyers:

Reviewer: I had to think for a minute, but I see what you've done here. Nice, I agree it works better.

Author: Yeah, it's nice and concise!

> * Use the {flak} unit's full Range, instead of the usual 10cm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use the {flak} unit's full Range value, instead of the usual 10cm.
```
Ditto earlier comments on 'value'.

Author: As above. 'Range' is a distance, you can't add 'value' after it!

Author: ```suggestion
* Use the {flak} unit's full Range, instead of the usual 10cm.
```

+

> NOTE: Super-heavy weapons such as {macro-weapon} cannot be used for Snap Fire attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: You may not use super-heavy weapon effects — such as {macro-weapon} — for Flak Snap-Fire attacks.
```
A couple of small tweaks, but mainly to replace passive case with active second-person.

Is it also worth mentioning something like "As with a normal Snap-Fire attack, simply roll one die — you hit if the result is equal to or higher than the Flyer unit's Armour value."?

Author: I don't think that's needed, this _is_ a normal Snap Fire/Snap-Fire/Snap-fire attack. The only change is the Range.

> +[TODO: So, in effect we have to fall back on the Firepower value that would apply? Presumably not the 'base unit' Firepower, but the 'fallback from a super-heavy weapon to FP1 by default' Firepower of 1 that we see in other cases such as firefights? So, we'd count a Fire Prism as FP1 in this case, and therefore get 1 Flak shot?]+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
No longer needed, given your improvements.

> +[IJW: This isn't relevant, Snap Fire is always a single shot regardless of Firepower.]+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Good point, nice one. Two heads are definitely better than one :-D

= Flak

These units are specialised to shoot down enemy flyers and drop pods.
Some use very sophisticated targeting devices and fast, accurate weapons systems.
Others simply fill the air with so many munitions that they can hardly fail to get some hits.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

[NOTE.e40k]
====
We made these rules fit with the new Start phase.
====

```

 * Treat the other units in the detachment as though they are on Overwatch orders -- so you can move them up to 5cm in the Movement phase and re-roll misses when you shoot with them in the Shooting phase.
. A {flak} unit can shoot at enemy flyers if any part of their flight path is within the {flak} unit's full Range value:
 * Roll one D6 for each point of the {flak} unit's Firepower value.
 Each result that is equal to or higher than the flyer's Armour value scores a hit on the flyer.
 You can split the firepower of the {flak} unit between several flyers if you wish.
 * Once you have rolled a D6 for each point of the unit's Firepower, the unit cannot shoot for the rest of the turn.
 * You can apply the effects of super-heavy weapons. +
.Flak, with a super-heavy weapon
====
The Eldar Fire Prism has a single {macro-weapon} attack.
This means that you will roll one die, and you'll hit on a result of 4+ — regardless of the flyer's Armour value.
====

.Any other orders — Flak Snap-Fire attack
Apply these rules to the unit's Snap Fire attacks against flyers:

* Use the {flak} unit's full Range value, instead of the usual 10cm.
+

> NOTE: You may not use super-heavy weapon effects — such as {macro-weapon} — for Flak Snap-Fire attacks.

Reviewer: Actually, don't need the word Flak at the end there after all do we. SHW effects aren't allowed on regular Snap-Fire attacks either, are they?
